# Passive Inventory weekly call (May 5,2025)

## Participants

- [x] Aihua Guo (Futurewei)
- [ ] Mohammad Boroon (Highstreet)
- [ ] Nigel Davis (Ciena)
- [ ] Chaode Yu (Huawei)
- [ ] Mauro Tilocca (FiberCop)
- [ ] Sergio Belotti (Nokia)
- [ ] Tom Van Caenegem (Nokia)
- [ ] Swaminathan S. (Nokia)
- [ ] Swaminathan B. (Nokia)
- [ ] Italo Busi (Huawei)
- [ ] Yucong Liu (China Mobile)
- [ ] Yang Zhao (China Mobile)
- [ ] Bin Yeong Yoon (ETRI)
- [ ] Brad Peters (NBN)
- [ ] Avinash S (Radisys)

## Admin

Next call:
- May 5, 2025 at 10am NA EST / 4pm CET / 10pm CST

## Agenda
### Pull Request Review
### Next steps

## Discussion

### Pull Request Review 
Issue[#10](https://github.com/aguoietf/draft-ygb-ivy-passive-network-inventory/issues/9)
the base model prefix is now changed to nwi, proposing including this change to version update according to #9

Last Review Comments:
 - The introduction text needs some update to clarify the primary focus of this draft on passive devices that are not already functionally presented.
 - The name of cable and cable segment needs review. Proposed to call them "cable" and "concatnated cable". Operator's input on the convention of naming or managing cables would be helpful.
 - Agreed to generate v1 with the examples while we continue to update the terminology.

AP: Shorten the co-author list. Sergio/Tom/Swamy to provide a name. Yucong/Yang to provide a name.
AP: Nigel to suggest some text update to the introduction section regarding the scope of passive devices.
AP: Generated v1 draft and review it on the next call. Submit revised v1 when ready.

### Issue [#10](https://github.com/aguoietf/draft-ygb-ivy-passive-network-inventory/issues/10) - Passive inventory for Microwave
- Passive infrastructure for Microwave
  - Atmospheric link can be considered as a logical end-to-end link
  - For tower it can be a type of "location", while couplers/antenna is considered as passive device
  - TBD: the definition of passive infrastructure for microwave needs to be discussed with MW experts

### Issue [#7](https://github.com/aguoietf/draft-ygb-ivy-passive-network-inventory/issues/7) - Scope of passive inventory
- Add examples (description and diagram) for cable and fiber cores (AP: Aihua)
- Add examples (description and diagram) for passive infrastructure (IP, Optical Transport, Optical Access, Microwave) (AP: Aihua, Mohammad)
- TBD: continue working on the figures. Aihua to send draft figures for Transport and access for review.
  
### Issue [#6](https://github.com/aguoietf/draft-ygb-ivy-passive-network-inventory/issues/6) - Modeling methodology
- Agreed that the proposal for modeling logical passive topology makes sense.
- There is still ongoing discussion in IETF NMOP regarding how the topology abstraction can be modeled, e.g. RFC8345 extensions or RFC8795. This is a topology problem and is not in the scope of the inventory modeling

### Terminology
- Cable
- Fiber core (a 'strand' of something)
- Passive device
(AP: Nigel to reference ONF experience and look into the definition)
We discussed the difference between cable and cable segments. There is question on whether cable segment needs to be modeled. It was agreed to invesitage the industry practice in managing cable segmements to determine whether it is really needed to distingush the modeling between cable and cable segment.
