# Passive Inventory weekly call (Apr. 7,2025)

## Participants

- [x] Aihua Guo (Futurewei)
- [x] Mohammad Boroon (Highstreet)
- [x] Nigel Davis (Ciena)
- [ ] Chaode Yu (Huawei)
- [x] Mauro Tilocca (FiberCop)
- [x] Sergio Belotti (Nokia)
- [x] Tom Van Caenegem (Nokia)
- [ ] Swaminathan S. (Nokia)
- [ ] Swaminathan B. (Nokia)
- [x] Italo Busi (Huawei)
- [ ] Yucong Liu (China Mobile)
- [ ] Yang Zhao (China Mobile)
- [ ] Bin Yeong Yoon (ETRI)
- [ ] Brad Peters (NBN)
- [x] Avinash S (Radisys)

## Admin

Next call:
- April 14, 2025 at 10am NA EST / 4pm CET / 10pm CST

## Discussion

### IETF 122 updates
- A status update of the passive inventory modeling discussion was presented at IETF'122.
- Feedback #1: passive inventory to consider covering the modeling of intra-NE cable (cables within the same NE). Tracked in issue [#5](https://github.com/aguoietf/draft-ygb-ivy-passive-network-inventory/issues/5)
  - Examples: cables that connect chassises, cables that connect ports of different line cards (that are functionally important)
- Feedback #2: 1:1 link-cable mapping is currently defined in inventory-topology mapping, but seems inappropriate and needs to be further discussed.
  - Do we need this mapping and how? Issue [#2](https://github.com/aguoietf/draft-ygb-ivy-passive-network-inventory/issues/2)
  - Depends on a stable passive inventory model 
- Feedback #3: Distinction between an optical cable and other passive devices. If you can generalize that to all passive devices, that would be good.
  - The comment is with regards to the separate augments of optical cable and passive device. An optical cable can be considered as a "special" passive device.
  - Need to consider the differences between optical cable (geographic properties) and other passive devices

### Issue [#10](https://github.com/aguoietf/draft-ygb-ivy-passive-network-inventory/issues/10) - Passive inventory for Microwave
- Passive infrastructure for Microwave
  - Atmospheric link can be considered as a logical end-to-end link
  - For tower it can be a type of "location", while couplers/antenna is considered as passive device

### Issue [#7](https://github.com/aguoietf/draft-ygb-ivy-passive-network-inventory/issues/7) - Scope of passive inventory
- Add examples (description and diagram) for cable and fiber cores (AP: Aihua)
- Add examples (description and diagram) for passive infrastructure (IP, Optical Transport, Optical Access, Microwave) (AP: Mohammad)

### Issue [#6](https://github.com/aguoietf/draft-ygb-ivy-passive-network-inventory/issues/6) - Modeling methodology
- Tom's presentation on modeling of logical-passive topology was discussed
  - The intension is to be able to abstract the passive inventory into some intermediate representation
  - See also ONF TR-547 for similar abstractions
- Need more discussion on whether the connectivity information between NE/passive device port and fiber cables, and the fiber core connections within a passive device belongs to topology or inventory.
- Add examples to reflect the mapping 
  
### Terminology
- Cable
- Fiber core (a 'strand' of something)
- Passive device
(AP: Nigel to reference ONF experience and look into the definition)

### Notes from last discussion:
1. Introduction to BBF work on topology and inventory related to passive infrastructure
 - Tom noted the development of BBF models for topology and inventory
 - For OLTs it is always in the form of single fibers coming out of OLT ports, so no use of ribbon cables
 - Both fiber cable and fiber cores (strands) need to be modeled.
   - Important to undertand the connections of fiber cores through joints
   - Multiple services can be associated with the same fiber core
 - The mapping between link and fiber core needs to be modeled
   - Topology represents the abstraction layers and is functional
