# Passive Inventory weekly call (Apr. 28,2025)

## Participants

- [x] Aihua Guo (Futurewei)
- [ ] Mohammad Boroon (Highstreet)
- [ ] Nigel Davis (Ciena)
- [ ] Chaode Yu (Huawei)
- [ ] Mauro Tilocca (FiberCop)
- [ ] Sergio Belotti (Nokia)
- [ ] Tom Van Caenegem (Nokia)
- [ ] Swaminathan S. (Nokia)
- [ ] Swaminathan B. (Nokia)
- [ ] Italo Busi (Huawei)
- [ ] Yucong Liu (China Mobile)
- [ ] Yang Zhao (China Mobile)
- [ ] Bin Yeong Yoon (ETRI)
- [ ] Brad Peters (NBN)
- [ ] Avinash S (Radisys)

## Admin

Next call:
- April 28, 2025 at 10am NA EST / 4pm CET / 10pm CST

## Discussion

### Issue [#10](https://github.com/aguoietf/draft-ygb-ivy-passive-network-inventory/issues/10) - Passive inventory for Microwave
- Passive infrastructure for Microwave
  - Atmospheric link can be considered as a logical end-to-end link
  - For tower it can be a type of "location", while couplers/antenna is considered as passive device
  - TBD: the definition of passive infrastructure for microwave needs to be discussed with MW experts

### Issue [#7](https://github.com/aguoietf/draft-ygb-ivy-passive-network-inventory/issues/7) - Scope of passive inventory
- Add examples (description and diagram) for cable and fiber cores (AP: Aihua)
- Add examples (description and diagram) for passive infrastructure (IP, Optical Transport, Optical Access, Microwave) (AP: Aihua, Mohammad)
- TBD: continue working on the figures. Aihua to send draft figures for Transport and access for review.
  
### Issue [#6](https://github.com/aguoietf/draft-ygb-ivy-passive-network-inventory/issues/6) - Modeling methodology
- Agreed that the proposal for modeling logical passive topology makes sense.
- There is still ongoing discussion in IETF NMOP regarding how the topology abstraction can be modeled, e.g. RFC8345 extensions or RFC8795. This is a topology problem and is not in the scope of the inventory modeling

### Terminology
- Cable
- Fiber core (a 'strand' of something)
- Passive device
(AP: Nigel to reference ONF experience and look into the definition)
We discussed the difference between cable and cable segments. There is question on whether cable segment needs to be modeled. It was agreed to invesitage the industry practice in managing cable segmements to determine whether it is really needed to distingush the modeling between cable and cable segment.
